Driving Story:
Possibilites: 
	1.	Using data and fairly simple methods 
		we can find weak spots and improve components of a system by a lot
	2.	Small changes in behavior of individuals can have a significant impact on the
		efficiency of the system (ex. driver's decision, people asking driver to go to far flung places, 
		unusal destination, etc)
	3.	Looking at taxi system gives us a sense of the city as a whole, and change around us.
	4.	Open/Big data gives us a new way to look at familiar things, and helps us find out
		previously unknown truths about them
	5.	Data science is really cool, and while it isn't an exact science it helps us get about
		pretty good idea of how stuff works
	6.	People make intuitive assumption, but data science gives us the tools
		to answer some of the questions we have analytically and in a way which forces us to think
		more critically about it
	7.	By examining the data we can find surprising ways to improve the efficiency of the system
	8.	Data-driven decisions can save people money, improve driver's efficiency, help the environment 


Intro (Start very high level)
A. Grab the audience's attention 
- How many of you have taken a cab in nyc?? 
- And how many of you have NEVER taken a cab in nyc?

- If we go outside right now, we'll see taxis going in all
 directions, but CAN WE
get an overview of all taxis at one time?

B. Describe the overall taxi system & its importance
# add animation of taxis moving through city
- Taxi system integral/iconic part of city, can take pulse/heartbeat of city by looking at taxi system
- Taxi system is intricate but at the same time simple, lots of variables for each trip, but we can make
general statements by looking at the data from high-level

C. Talk about the data we acquired, and discuss cleaning 
- Our data: every trip that happened in July 2013 (fare, tips, (de)anonymized driver license, (de)anonymized
medallion license, pickup/dropoff coordinates, ... )
- 13.5 million trips in our data for July
- Before we could begin analyzing our data, we had to understand our data better and spend a lot of time
cleaning it up
- For example, when we tried to look at where trips in NYC occur, we took our coordinates and plotted them on a 
map
- Strangely, we saw rides that took place in Virginia, Texas, and even Antarctica. Some coordinates were not valid coordinates (show pic)

- Let's start by looking at where taxis in NYC go...

Topic 1: Flow 
- Explain method of mapping coordinate to neighborhood
- Explain idea of net flow (how that helps us understand where people take taxis to/from) [heatmap of flow]
- compare weekend/weekday flow
(adding a timline of some popular areas)
- popular destinations - neighborhoods (point out notable places) [heatmap]
? unusual destinations - more fine-grained places



Topic 2: Driver Efficiency
- Analyzing driver behavior and identifying good and bad drivers (whether we can even classify drivers as such)
 OR IS THE AMOUNT A DRIVER MAKES DUE TO CHANCE?
- Identifying shifts of drivers [show just the rides of a driver's shifts]
- Researcher Farber's work helped us confirm his result of 6 hours b/w shifts [show distribution?]
- [show same driver's rides, with shifts]

A. Shifts/efficiency and some stats
- Explain efficiency - why our definition makes sense
- examples of good/bad drivers (MIXED) [Abe's timeline plot]
- Mini guessing game of whether driver is efficient or not? [one bad, one good]

- Display stats/plots about extreme drivers 

- [Show efficiency based on {start_hour, shift_type, is_week_end}]  


B. Modeling - can we predict efficiency based on driver and other features?
(Regression)
Methodology of confirming correlation b/w DRIVER and efficiency
Features: Start hour, weekend/weekday, rainfall, location (neighborhoods), and DRIVER 


Model Performance
BASE RMSE: 5.76 (w/ intercept only) 
MODEL RMSE: 4.57
R^2: 0.37

Now that we have a handle on the efficiency of drivers, 
we can look at efficiency of the system (and passengers)

Topic 3: Carpooling 

Since we know the flow of the taxi system, can we improve the system?
more particularly, can we find times and places where 
there's potential for carpooling so that we can save money, carbon emissons, reduce traffic?

city tried in 2009 two "carpooling" stands, but failed because people in that area
mostly tended to use taxi to go within same neighborhood
http://www.theverge.com/2016/7/20/12236342/nyc-yellow-taxi-carpool-arro-cmt-bandwagon
(links to other pertinent articles)

base assumptions: people will be willing to wait 5 minutes, walk about a block, to find pooling partner
who share destinations within 1 km(?)
we found that there's actually a yuuge amount of carpooling potential.

we looked at top 20 carpooling "hotspots" to find where carpooling "potentials" are most likely to happen
#1 JFK, #2 LGA, #3-10 transportation hubs like Penn Station, Port Authority Bus Terminal, Grand Central
Metropolitan Museum of Art, (show map/list)

we found that we can improve the systm by about 3-10% depending on the parameters and what particular
metric we were looking at
INSERT FINDINGS HERE

Closing:
Now we're happy to be data scientists :)
Love it!
